=head1 NAME

dgrep, degrep, dfgrep, dzgrep -- grep through files belonging to an installed Debian package

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dgrep> [I<most grep options>] I<pattern> I<package>...

B<dgrep> B<--help>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dgrep> invokes grep(1) on each file in one or more installed Debian 
packages.

It passes the I<package> argument(s) to dglob(1) to retrieve a list of files 
in those packages. You can use POSIX regular expressions for the package 
names.

If B<dgrep> is invoked as B<degrep>, B<dfgrep> or B<dzgrep> then egrep(1), 
fgrep(1) or zgrep(1) is used instead of B<grep>.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<dgrep> supports most of grep(1)'s options. Please refer to your 
B<grep> documentation (i.e. the manpage or the texinfo manual) for
a complete listing. Only a few options are excluded because they do not 
conform with the intended behaviour, see the list below.

=head2 Options of grep that are not supported by dgrep

=over 4

=item B<-r>, B<--recursive>, B<-d> I<recurse>, B<--directories>=I<recurse>

=item B<-d> I<read>, B<--directories>=I<read>

B<dgrep> searches only in the "normal" files of a package. It skips all
directories and symlinks. Therefor the options of
grep that are specific to directories are not supported.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Matt Zimmerman <mdz@debian.org>

This manpage was written by Frank Lichtenheld <frank@lichtenheld>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2001 Matt Zimmerman <mdz@debian.org>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
any later version.

On Debian systems, a copy of the GNU General Public License may be
found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.

=head1 SEE ALSO

grep(1), egrep(1), fgrep(1), zgrep(1), dglob(1), regex(7), dpkg(8)
