.TH "DEBMANY" "1" "1.1" "Michael Arlt" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
debmany \- select manpages from installed packages, packages from the repository or .deb\-files for viewing using "man" or an alternative viewer.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B debmany
\fI\-\-help
.br 
.B debmany
\fI[\-m manpageviewer|\-k|\-g|\-x] package|package.deb\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP 
Select a manpage from a debian package for viewing with man or an alternative viewer. The list of manpages is displayed in a dialog. Supported locations for debian packages are: Local .deb\-file, a package in the repository or a installed package.
.TP 
\fB\-\-help\fR
display a small help and exit
.TP 
\fB\-m manpageviewer\fR
Optionally set a manpage viewer. The viewer must support .gz files. You can preset the desired manpage viewer with the environment variable DEBMANY_MANPAGE_VIEWER. You must define the complete request. "%s" gets replaced with the path to the manpage. The manpageviewer must be enclosed with "" or '' \- see examples.
If you use a graphical viewer you must ensure that you have access to your desktop (if necessary: sux or ssh with x\-forwarding)
.TP 
\fB\-k\fR
Display the manpage using your preferred viewer (must support .gz files) if you use KDE \- this is the short form of \-m 'kfmclient exec man:%s'. "kfmclient" is a part of the package "konqueror".
.TP 
\fB\-g\fR
Display the manpage using your preferred viewer (must support .gz files) if you use GNOME \- this is the short form of \-m 'gnome\-open man:%s'. "gnome\-open" is a part of the package "libgnome2\-0".
.TP 
\fB\-x\fR
Display the manpage using your preferred viewer (must support .gz files) if you use KDE/GNOME/Xfce \- this is the short form of \-m 'xdg\-open man:%s'. "xdg\-open" is a part of the package "xdg\-utils".
.PP 
The manpages are temporarily extracted to /dev/shm (if the directory exists) or /tmp . You can override the path if you set and export the environment variable TMPDIR.
.PP 
You need to have the debian package "whiptail" (preferred) or "dialog" as well as "curl" installed.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 
debmany coreutils
Show all manpages from the installed debian package "coreutils" using man.
.TP 
debmany 3dchess
Show all manpages from the package "3dchess" using man. Since it is not already installed the package is accessed from the repository \- even downloading is done if needed. 
.TP 
debmany test.deb
Show all manpages from the local debian package "./test.deb" using man.
.TP 
debmany \-k sc
Use your preferred man\-viewer (for KDE user)
.TP 
debmany \-g sc
Use your preferred man\-viewer (for GNOME user)
.TP 
debmany \-x sc
Use your preferred man\-viewer (for KDE/GNOME/Xfce user)
.TP 
debmany \-m 'konqueror man:%s' sc
Use Konqueror as viewer
.TP 
export DEBMANY_MANPAGE_VIEWER="konqueror man:%s"; debmany sc
Use the viewer specified in the environment variable DEBMANY_MANPAGE_VIEWER (konqueror)
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Michael Arlt.
.SH "LICENSE"
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of
the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
